README.md, before:

# [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd/) Machine Learning Jamaica Institute

This platform has been adapted into the globally accredited Diploma, "[Universal Artificial Inteligence Diploma](https://www.instagram.com/p/CWJSmL-PnaR/)" in partnership with Advanced Solutions Technical institute.

# This paradigm occurs wrt [RobotizeJA's objectives](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/ROBOTIZE_JA).


# [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd) Curriculum Main Page
# Course: "A Practical/Rapid ~6+ Week Ai Course is all you need" 



# Meaning of life & the MLJI roadmap: 
 * Start as a typical computer user with or without programming skills, and end as an Artificial Intelligence product creator and profit from [Ai's predicted 15 Trillion dollar 2030 market cap](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/02/25/ai-will-add-15-trillion-to-the-world-economy-by-2030/?sh=76b9bd4e1852)! 
 * With [800 million jobs to be automated away by 2030](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42170100), and Artificial Intelligence market cap at [15 trillion around the same time](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/02/25/ai-will-add-15-trillion-to-the-world-economy-by-2030/?sh=76b9bd4e1852), become a builder of Ai solutions, and [capture your chunk of the exponentially growing Ai market](https://singularityhub.com/2018/07/15/why-most-of-us-fail-to-grasp-coming-exponential-gains-in-ai/).
     * As an MLJI trained person [who happens to be a farmer], building out an Ai farming application to classify your farm yield, is one of thousands of exciting practical/profitable AI apps, through MLJI roadmap. ([See relevant Ai app by cuccumber farmer](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/ai-machine-learning/how-a-japanese-cucumber-farmer-is-using-deep-learning-and-tensorflow)).
     * As an MLJI trained person [who happens to be a software dev at a bank], building out an Ai based masked face recognition app, is another one of thousands of exciting practical/profitable AI apps, through MLJI roadmap. ([See relevant Ai app by creator of MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/MASKED-FACE-RECOGNITION-OR-PERIOCULAR-ARTIFICIAL-INTELLIGENCE-APP))
     * As an MLJI trained person [who happens to be a nurse or doctor...], building out an Ai based covid19 diagnosis, is another one of thousands of exciting practical/profitable AI apps, through MLJI roadmap.  ([See relevant Ai app by creator of MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/SMART-CT-SCAN_BASED-COVID19_VIRUS_DETECTOR))
     * ...
# Bonus-beyond: Humanity's last invention - Introduction to Artificial General Intelligence ([Example: Prof Ben Gortzel](https://youtu.be/9snY7lhJA4c))
See course content (15 minutes read): https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/Introduction%20to%20Artificial%20General%20Intelligence.pdf

![Alt Text](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/email_marketing_style_01.png)


# Why learn Ai development and application?
1. [The world's smartest people are switching careers into Ai research and application/productization!](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/god-bennett_httpslnkdinebrmfzu-activity-6761811288260694016-70Ys).
2. According to [PwC Global](https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/data-and-analytics/publications/artificial-intelligence-study.html), Ai will yield a [15 trillion dollar market cap by the year 2030](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/02/25/ai-will-add-15-trillion-to-the-world-economy-by-2030/?sh=76b9bd4e1852). This is around the same time [800 million jobs shall be automated away, according to Bank of America](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42170100).
 * It is thus key to intimately benefit in this automation effort, rather than fail to do so.

# Recommended Mini Artificial Intelligence Docuseries:
[The AGE of Artificial Intelligence Season 1, Hosted by Robert Downey Jr](
https://youtu.be/UwsrzCVZAb8?list=PLjq6DwYksrzz_fsWIpPcf6V7p2RNAneKc)
 
# Introduction
1. Brain inspired computer code or smart apps, called **AGI or artificial _general_ intelligence** (predicted to happen by [as soon as 2029 or sooner](http://www.businessinsider.com/ray-kurzweil-thinks-well-have-human-level-ai-by-2029-2014-12)), will perhaps one day be [mankind's last invention!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9snY7lhJA4c) For now though, AGI's predecessor, called **artificial _narrow_ intelligence**, also called **artificial intelligence**, can do amazing stuff like [diagnose diseases better than human doctors](https://futurism.com/ai-diagnose-heart-disease-lung-cancer-more-accurately-doctors/), or [give game characters the ability to learn to navigate game environments without human aid](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qv6UVOQ0F44)! 

* [Google, Microsoft etc, are working towards AGI today](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-019-00887-x).

2. Crucially, the **Jamaican government** [has recognized that artificial narrow intelligence, a part of machine learning, is a threat to jobs](http://jamaica-gleaner.com/article/news/20180418/beware-artificial-intelligence-wheatley-warns-bpo-sector). Notably, [here's a list of jobs where robots or smart software are already replacing humans](https://blog.cheapism.com/robots-taking-jobs/). 

3. As the **1st machine learning school established in Jamaica/Carribean** in 2016/2020, [MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage) seeks to help more and more Jamaicans to find out what steps they can take to acquire skills needed to **stay relevant** in a world that's more and more driven by artificial intelligence, that shall replace more and more jobs with physical robots and or smart software. 

4. As such, [MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage) is an institute that aims to bring more Jamaicans into the modern world of artificial intelligence and programming through fun, tailored lectures. Pertinently, see the "why" tab on the [MLJI website](hmlj-institute.appspot.com), to find out why **high-schoolers, or even busy Masters/PhD/Professor people who are not trained in the machine learning field can participate in modern machine learning**!



# Rapid/Optimal ~6+ Week Curriculum
This curriculum is designed to cater to two main categories of users, including **non-programmers** and **programmers**. Those two categories naturally cover persons including those with **High school diplomas, Bachelors degrees, Masters degrees, PhDs, and Professorships**.

The two main categories above are expressible as 2 types, based on the goals that [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd) desginates its students to perform.

As such, from here on out, you select one of the types below, and begin your learning process:

1. [MLJI For Non programmers (Type A)](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum-Type-A_Non-Programmers)
2. [MLJI For Programmers (Type B)](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainProgrammerPage)

![Alt Text](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/tick.png)

By the time you complete either one of [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd)'s curriculum types above, you would be a marketable candidate, qualified to attain remote work with the capability to earn [beyond 80,000 USD per year](https://www.ziprecruiter.com/s/Remote-Data-Scientist-Salary), whether you're a high schooler or professor who was not priorly trained in [Deep Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning). Also, you would be in far better position for local work, and better able to prepare for automation of more and more jobs in the globe, and in the country.


# Curriculum Requirements
1. Candidates must have at least passed the [GSAT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grade_Six_Achievement_Test) or completed the [PEP](http://www.moe.gov.jm/primary-exit-profile-pep) or something similar. (From Primary to Tertiary Education and beyond, i.e. Additionally, up to PhD/Professor level candidates are welcome too!) 
* The requirement above essentially concerns just before high school level all the way up to PhD/Professor people who want to profit from Ai development!
2. Candidates must be willing to devote at most 6 to 8+ weeks to ASTIS's curriculum. In other words, candidates must be willing to build himself/herself, by acquiring machine learning skills through ASTIS's 6-8+ week curriculum.
3. Candidates need to have access to [machine learning computers](https://pub.towardsai.net/best-laptops-for-machine-learning-deep-learning-data-science-ml-f55602197593), or online machine learning compute like [free colab instances](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb).
4. This course also advises for the use of datasets such as those [from kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets). Ai/Machine learning is normally complete with ingredients:
* Ai Knowledge/Skills (which this course builds in each candidate)
* Ai Compute
* Ai Compatible/Consumable Datasets




# Why Artificial Neural Network focussed?
![Alt Text](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum-Type-A_Non-Programmers/blob/master/data/logo.png)


As underlined in [prior Live Neural network sessions by organizer Bennett](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Live-Agile-Artificial-Neural-Network-Programming-Sessions), artificial neural networks can represent a wide variety of utilities/functions as seen in [Universal Approximation Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_approximation_theorem), and since neural networks power most cognitive/smart apps today, ranging from Tesla's self driving cars, to Facebook's auto face tagging Ai, CAII targets this core field. Learning neural networks which are general models, gives rise to intuition needed to venture elsewhere if neccessary.


# Website
http://mlj-institute.rf.gd

# Extensions/Partners

This course has been adapted for [AICE](https://www.aiceafrica.com) via AdalabsAfrica, and Delaware State University.


# About author
[God Bennett](https://www.linkedin.com/in/god-bennett/) is the founder of [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd), author of "**Artificial Neural Networks for Kids**" (See either [Amazon url](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B077FX57ZZ) or [free copy](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/321162382_Artificial_Neural_Nets_For_Kids)) and inventor of the ["Supersymmetric Artificial Neural Network"](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Supersymmetric-artificial-neural-network). 




# See a reasonably soft [Introduction to Artificial General Intelligence](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/Introduction%20to%20Artificial%20General%20Intelligence.pdf)


# Recommended reading for babies
MLJI's course is designed for teens/adults. Albeit, take a look at these intriguing books for babies: [Einsteinian books for babies](https://medium.com/@jordanmicahbennett/einsteinian-books-for-babies-4aa18c3c23c)

# Recommended long term reading for students 
The most rigorous attempt to create an explanatory framework for Deep Learning (about 500 pages), recently built heavily in Physics:
https://deeplearningtheory.com/PDLT.pdf

See also - Short summary: ["NOW IT’S OFFICIAL: WE DIDN’T UNDERSTAND HOW NEURAL NETWORKS WORK TILL NOW"](https://striki.ai/blog/2021/06/24/now-its-official-we-didnt-understand-how-neural-networks-work-till-now/).

# Happy coding!

Commit message:

Added: Why combine artificial neural networks from scratch in with focus in practical machine learning library stack such as tensorflow/pytorch...?

README.md, after:

# [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd/) Machine Learning Jamaica Institute

This platform has been adapted into the globally accredited Diploma, "[Universal Artificial Inteligence Diploma](https://www.instagram.com/p/CWJSmL-PnaR/)" in partnership with Advanced Solutions Technical institute.

# This paradigm occurs wrt [RobotizeJA's objectives](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/ROBOTIZE_JA).


# [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd) Curriculum Main Page
# Course: "A Practical/Rapid ~6+ Week Ai Course is all you need" 



# Meaning of life & the MLJI roadmap: 
 * Start as a typical computer user with or without programming skills, and end as an Artificial Intelligence product creator and profit from [Ai's predicted 15 Trillion dollar 2030 market cap](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/02/25/ai-will-add-15-trillion-to-the-world-economy-by-2030/?sh=76b9bd4e1852)! 
 * With [800 million jobs to be automated away by 2030](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42170100), and Artificial Intelligence market cap at [15 trillion around the same time](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/02/25/ai-will-add-15-trillion-to-the-world-economy-by-2030/?sh=76b9bd4e1852), become a builder of Ai solutions, and [capture your chunk of the exponentially growing Ai market](https://singularityhub.com/2018/07/15/why-most-of-us-fail-to-grasp-coming-exponential-gains-in-ai/).
     * As an MLJI trained person [who happens to be a farmer], building out an Ai farming application to classify your farm yield, is one of thousands of exciting practical/profitable AI apps, through MLJI roadmap. ([See relevant Ai app by cuccumber farmer](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/ai-machine-learning/how-a-japanese-cucumber-farmer-is-using-deep-learning-and-tensorflow)).
     * As an MLJI trained person [who happens to be a software dev at a bank], building out an Ai based masked face recognition app, is another one of thousands of exciting practical/profitable AI apps, through MLJI roadmap. ([See relevant Ai app by creator of MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/MASKED-FACE-RECOGNITION-OR-PERIOCULAR-ARTIFICIAL-INTELLIGENCE-APP))
     * As an MLJI trained person [who happens to be a nurse or doctor...], building out an Ai based covid19 diagnosis, is another one of thousands of exciting practical/profitable AI apps, through MLJI roadmap.  ([See relevant Ai app by creator of MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/SMART-CT-SCAN_BASED-COVID19_VIRUS_DETECTOR))
     * ...
# Bonus-beyond: Humanity's last invention - Introduction to Artificial General Intelligence ([Example: Prof Ben Gortzel](https://youtu.be/9snY7lhJA4c))
See course content (15 minutes read): https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/Introduction%20to%20Artificial%20General%20Intelligence.pdf

![Alt Text](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/email_marketing_style_01.png)


# Why learn Ai development and application?
1. [The world's smartest people are switching careers into Ai research and application/productization!](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/god-bennett_httpslnkdinebrmfzu-activity-6761811288260694016-70Ys).
2. According to [PwC Global](https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/issues/data-and-analytics/publications/artificial-intelligence-study.html), Ai will yield a [15 trillion dollar market cap by the year 2030](https://www.forbes.com/sites/greatspeculations/2019/02/25/ai-will-add-15-trillion-to-the-world-economy-by-2030/?sh=76b9bd4e1852). This is around the same time [800 million jobs shall be automated away, according to Bank of America](https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-42170100).
 * It is thus key to intimately benefit in this automation effort, rather than fail to do so.

# Recommended Mini Artificial Intelligence Docuseries:
[The AGE of Artificial Intelligence Season 1, Hosted by Robert Downey Jr](
https://youtu.be/UwsrzCVZAb8?list=PLjq6DwYksrzz_fsWIpPcf6V7p2RNAneKc)
 
# Introduction
1. Brain inspired computer code or smart apps, called **AGI or artificial _general_ intelligence** (predicted to happen by [as soon as 2029 or sooner](http://www.businessinsider.com/ray-kurzweil-thinks-well-have-human-level-ai-by-2029-2014-12)), will perhaps one day be [mankind's last invention!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9snY7lhJA4c) For now though, AGI's predecessor, called **artificial _narrow_ intelligence**, also called **artificial intelligence**, can do amazing stuff like [diagnose diseases better than human doctors](https://futurism.com/ai-diagnose-heart-disease-lung-cancer-more-accurately-doctors/), or [give game characters the ability to learn to navigate game environments without human aid](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qv6UVOQ0F44)! 

* [Google, Microsoft etc, are working towards AGI today](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00146-019-00887-x).

2. Crucially, the **Jamaican government** [has recognized that artificial narrow intelligence, a part of machine learning, is a threat to jobs](http://jamaica-gleaner.com/article/news/20180418/beware-artificial-intelligence-wheatley-warns-bpo-sector). Notably, [here's a list of jobs where robots or smart software are already replacing humans](https://blog.cheapism.com/robots-taking-jobs/). 

3. As the **1st machine learning school established in Jamaica/Carribean** in 2016/2020, [MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage) seeks to help more and more Jamaicans to find out what steps they can take to acquire skills needed to **stay relevant** in a world that's more and more driven by artificial intelligence, that shall replace more and more jobs with physical robots and or smart software. 

4. As such, [MLJI](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage) is an institute that aims to bring more Jamaicans into the modern world of artificial intelligence and programming through fun, tailored lectures. Pertinently, see the "why" tab on the [MLJI website](hmlj-institute.appspot.com), to find out why **high-schoolers, or even busy Masters/PhD/Professor people who are not trained in the machine learning field can participate in modern machine learning**!



# Rapid/Optimal ~6+ Week Curriculum
This curriculum is designed to cater to two main categories of users, including **non-programmers** and **programmers**. Those two categories naturally cover persons including those with **High school diplomas, Bachelors degrees, Masters degrees, PhDs, and Professorships**.

The two main categories above are expressible as 2 types, based on the goals that [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd) desginates its students to perform.

As such, from here on out, you select one of the types below, and begin your learning process:

1. [MLJI For Non programmers (Type A)](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum-Type-A_Non-Programmers)
2. [MLJI For Programmers (Type B)](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainProgrammerPage)

![Alt Text](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/tick.png)

By the time you complete either one of [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd)'s curriculum types above, you would be a marketable candidate, qualified to attain remote work with the capability to earn [beyond 80,000 USD per year](https://www.ziprecruiter.com/s/Remote-Data-Scientist-Salary), whether you're a high schooler or professor who was not priorly trained in [Deep Learning](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_learning). Also, you would be in far better position for local work, and better able to prepare for automation of more and more jobs in the globe, and in the country.


# Curriculum Requirements
1. Candidates must have at least passed the [GSAT](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grade_Six_Achievement_Test) or completed the [PEP](http://www.moe.gov.jm/primary-exit-profile-pep) or something similar. (From Primary to Tertiary Education and beyond, i.e. Additionally, up to PhD/Professor level candidates are welcome too!) 
* The requirement above essentially concerns just before high school level all the way up to PhD/Professor people who want to profit from Ai development!
2. Candidates must be willing to devote at most 6 to 8+ weeks to ASTIS's curriculum. In other words, candidates must be willing to build himself/herself, by acquiring machine learning skills through ASTIS's 6-8+ week curriculum.
3. Candidates need to have access to [machine learning computers](https://pub.towardsai.net/best-laptops-for-machine-learning-deep-learning-data-science-ml-f55602197593), or online machine learning compute like [free colab instances](https://colab.research.google.com/notebooks/intro.ipynb).
4. This course also advises for the use of datasets such as those [from kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets). Ai/Machine learning is normally complete with ingredients:
* Ai Knowledge/Skills (which this course builds in each candidate)
* Ai Compute
* Ai Compatible/Consumable Datasets




# Why Artificial Neural Network focussed?

![Alt Text](https://github.com/g0dEngineer/ASTIS/blob/main/data/exclamation_mark.png)

# Why Artificial Neural Network focussed?
![Alt Text](https://github.com/g0dEngineer/ASTIS/blob/main/data/logo.png)

As underlined in [prior Live Neural network sessions by organizer Bennett](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Live-Agile-Artificial-Neural-Network-Programming-Sessions), artificial neural networks can represent a wide variety of utilities/functions as seen in [Universal Approximation Theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universal_approximation_theorem), and since neural networks power most cognitive/smart apps today, ranging from Tesla's self driving cars, to Facebook's auto face tagging Ai, ASTIS targets this core field. Learning neural networks which are general models, gives rise to intuition needed to venture elsewhere if neccessary.

# Why combine artificial neural networks from scratch in with focus in practical machine learning library stack such as tensorflow/pytorch...?
⚫Pertaining to artificial neural networks from scratch in particular, as [Microsoft's Joseph Albahari says](https://youtu.be/z8DY5DndmxI?t=192) (in his csharp based neural networks from scratch lecture), machine learning libraries are a great way to start, but not necessarily a great place to end up! 

📝In addition to the above, my reasonably smart curriculum includes "dynamic pathways" assuming some or no programming knowledge in addition to artificial neural's from scratch.

📝This Diploma combines artificial neural networks from scratch, in a [Java paradigm designed for new candidates](https://github.com/g0dEngineer/JAVA_WORMHOLE/), (around 1000 lines of code without machine learning libraries), with primarily practical detailed use of python aligned machine learning library enabled projects/via tensorflow for eg, therein helping candidates to gain intuition in the usage of machine learning libraries like tensorflow. University programs tend to confluence both Java and Python, where this **Diploma focusses primarily on python**.

📝As usual, as underlined in prior Live Neural network sessions by organizer Bennett, artificial neural networks can represent a wide variety of utilities/functions as seen in Universal Approximation Theorem, and since neural networks power most cognitive/smart apps today, ranging from Tesla's self driving cars, to Facebook's auto face tagging Ai, ASTIS targets this core field. Learning neural networks which are general models, gives rise to intuition needed to venture elsewhere if neccessary.




# Website
http://mlj-institute.rf.gd

# Extensions/Partners

This course has been adapted for [AICE](https://www.aiceafrica.com) via AdalabsAfrica, and Delaware State University.


# About author
[God Bennett](https://www.linkedin.com/in/god-bennett/) is the founder of [MLJI](http://mlj-institute.rf.gd), author of "**Artificial Neural Networks for Kids**" (See either [Amazon url](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B077FX57ZZ) or [free copy](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/321162382_Artificial_Neural_Nets_For_Kids)) and inventor of the ["Supersymmetric Artificial Neural Network"](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Supersymmetric-artificial-neural-network). 




# See a reasonably soft [Introduction to Artificial General Intelligence](https://github.com/JordanMicahBennett/Machine-Learning-Jamaica-Institute_Curriculum_MainPage/blob/master/data/Introduction%20to%20Artificial%20General%20Intelligence.pdf)


# Recommended reading for babies
MLJI's course is designed for teens/adults. Albeit, take a look at these intriguing books for babies: [Einsteinian books for babies](https://medium.com/@jordanmicahbennett/einsteinian-books-for-babies-4aa18c3c23c)

# Recommended long term reading for students 
The most rigorous attempt to create an explanatory framework for Deep Learning (about 500 pages), recently built heavily in Physics:
https://deeplearningtheory.com/PDLT.pdf

See also - Short summary: ["NOW IT’S OFFICIAL: WE DIDN’T UNDERSTAND HOW NEURAL NETWORKS WORK TILL NOW"](https://striki.ai/blog/2021/06/24/now-its-official-we-didnt-understand-how-neural-networks-work-till-now/).

# Happy coding!
